# Internationalization

## Terminology

### Message ID

An ID used to identify a specific message, regardless of locale. Examples are
as follows.

- `settings.title`
- `form.name.label`
- `landing.greeting.heading`

### Message

A message is some form of readable information communicated to a user. A
message exists by virtue of being mentioned using a message ID. A message
exists egardless of locale, but depending on the locale it might not have been
translated yet. A message can depend on values, such as time, date, and
numbers, but it itself does not contain any information on how to process and
display these.

### Locale

A locale is a set of parameters specifying a user's preferred language, region
and further specifiers used to show a user interface.

Examples for locales:

- `fr_BE`: Belgium French with Euro currency

### Localization

Adjusting information, such as messages, so that users of a specific locale
can understand them sufficiently. If something has been adjusted for a locale,
it will be called _localized_.

### String

The localized form of a message is called a string. If a translation is
missing on showing a message, an internationalization library can use the
message ID itself as a fallback, or a string from another locale. A string that
depends on values has to specifiy how these values (time, date, and numbers)
need to be displayed as part of this string.

## Using svelte-i18n

- [Github](https://github.com/kaisermann/svelte-i18n)
- [Getting started](https://github.com/kaisermann/svelte-i18n/blob/main/docs/Getting%20Started.md)
- [Available methods](https://github.com/kaisermann/svelte-i18n/blob/main/docs/Formatting.md)
- [ICU message syntax](https://formatjs.io/docs/core-concepts/icu-syntax/)

### Formatting a message with arguments

Given a message with id `message-id` and localized message string

```
I have {count, number} apples. My favorite apple is called {favoriteApple}
```

```js
import { _ } from "svelte-i18n";

$: message = $_("message", {
  values: { count: 1337, favoriteApple: "Honeycrisp" },
});
```

Also see the documentation on [quoting and escaping](https://formatjs.io/docs/core-concepts/icu-syntax/#quoting--escaping). If a message string is like so:

```
My name is '{name}'.
```

The name argument will not be interpolated correctly. Instead, write the
followng:

```
My name is ''{name}''.
```

In order to render HTML tags from within translated strings, these need to
be unescaped. Unescaping is usually a bad idea. If a user can set
their name to be `<script>window.alert('h4x')</script>`, we have an XSS
vulnerability. So don't do this:

```
My name is <strong>{totallyNotXss}</strong>
```

Because this will definitely be turned into this

```
My name is <strong><script>window.alert()</script></strong>
```
